
**Study:** Influence of heterotrophic feeding on juvenile _Pocillopora acuta_ coral physiological condition is dependent on temperature

**Authors:** Huffmyer AS, CJ Johnson, AM Epps, JD Lemus, RD Gates

**Corresponding Author:** AS Huffmyer, ashuffmyer@gmail.com, ashuff@hawaii.edu

**Abstract:**

Coral reef ecosystem recovery relies heavily on successful recruitment and survival of scleractinian corals following high-mortality disturbances, such as bleaching events. Juvenile corals face critical survival bottlenecks, intensified by climate change and ocean warming, that determine post-settlement success (i.e., survivorship and growth). In energetically demanding environments, conditions that favoring biomass storage and provide replete nutrition may facilitate energetic enhancement and increase post-settlement juvenile performance. We investigated the potential for physiological enhancement to increase survival and growth of juvenile corals through nutritional provisioning in an ex situ experiment. _Pocillopora acuta_ larvae were settled in flow-through filtered seawater (1 um) and exposed to the presence or absence of a natural assemblage of plankton (63-243 um) in two temperature regimes (25.8°C, 27.3°C), with settled colonies (n=750) reared in thermal and nutritional treatments for one month. Heterotrophic feeding positively influenced juvenile coral growth but did not affect survivorship, which was instead influenced by temperature. Using laser-scanning confocal microscopy, we investigated how these treatments influenced the physiological condition of juvenile colonies. The influence of heterotrophy on juvenile tissue thickness and symbiont chlorophyll fluorescence was dependent on the thermal regime juveniles were exposed to, highlighting the complex relationship between coral nutritional state and environmental conditions. The capacity for early post-settlement recruits to exploit increased food availability across seasonal and environmental regimes may be an important energetic strategy to support tissue and skeletal growth during critical lifecycle bottlenecks. These findings demonstrate the influence of nutritional regime in the context of environmental conditions and present an opportunity to further develop techniques aimed at enhancing the growth and resilience of propagated early life stages in restoration contexts.

